● Carroms will be an event for teams of 2.
● All the games will be knockout-based.
● Each game will be of 3 board and all the below rules apply for 3 board games.
● Semi Finals and Finals will be played for 29 points irrespective of the no. of
boards. If we have enough time, we may opt for a round robin format for the
last four instead of knockouts.
General Rules:
1. The decision taken by the referee is final.
2. If the striker does not leave both lines, go again. You get 3 tries to
break before losing your turn.
3. While taking a stroke, the Striker must touch both the Base Lines. If
failed to do there will be a penalty.
4. Red circle of baseline should not be covered half. Either you take it
fully or place your striker on the baseline while striking. If failed to do
there will be a penalty.
5. Any kind of penalties will be kept inside the circle by the opponent.
6. Backshots (thumb or scissors) are NOT allowed.
7. In your chance you must touch a coin or at least any wall of the board,
if you fail to do so you need to pay a fine.
8. If the coin is on the adjacent arrow, it should not be hit if it is hit you
need to place a fine.
9. If the coin is touching adjacent red circles and the black circle outside
it should not be hit, if it is hit you need to place a fine.10.Position adopted for sitting by a player before taking his turn to strike
may be changed at any time provided the chair on which he is sitting is
not lifted, moved during his turn of play.
Special Note for 3 board rounds:
1. The team scoring 15 and above points first, wins the game else the
winner is decided by counting maximum points at the end of 3 boards.
2. If both teams have the same points after 3 boards, then the team with 2
boards wins is the winner.
Points:
1. Queen will count a score of 5.
2. Points for the winning team is the number of coins of opponent left on
board. If the winning team covers the queen, then + 5 points.
3. If player pockets last coin of the opponent (when queen is on the board) he
shall lose the board with 5 + his coins left.
4. If player pockets last coin of his own (when queen is on board) he shall
lose the board with 5 points.
5. If player pockets last coin of his opponent (when queen is already
covered) he looses the board by number of his coins left on board and an
additional 5 if your opponent covered red.
6. If player pockets his last coin (when queen is already covered) he wins the
board by number of his coins of opponent left on board and an additional 5
if you covered red.
7. If you finish the game such that no coins are left on the board, then your
opponent gets 5 points, doesn’t matter which goes in first.8. While covering the Queen a player pockets the last coin of his own
together with the last coin of his opponent by a proper stroke, he shall be
awarded 5 points. If the score is 23 or more, he shall win by 1 point.
9. While covering the Queen, if a player pockets the last coin of his own
together with the last coin of his opponent by an improper stroke the
opponent shall win by 5 points. If the score is 23 or more he shall win by
one point.
Special Note for games of 29 points:
1. The semis and finals are played for 29 points. The team, first to score 29 or
more points will be declared the winner.
2. The player loses the advantage of getting the credit of an additional 5 points
for covering the Queen, once he has reached the score of 23 points.
Toss:
There will be a toss before the match to decide who breaks.
Break and Turn of Play:
1. Break is not considered to have been made if no coin is touched by the
Striker in its usual run or jumping out. In that case, a maximum of two
more chances shall be allowed
2. The turn passes on to the player sitting to the right-hand side of the player
who had his turn.
3. In the first game the player who chooses to break the first board shall have
the white coin. The player sitting on his right hand side breaks in the next
game and so on.Sink:
1. Sinking the striker costs you one piece and your turn. But, if you sink a
piece in the same shot, then two coins come up and you shoot again
(or) one coin comes up and you lose your turn.
2. If the Queen and the Striker are pocketed together by a proper stroke,
the Queen will be placed at the centre. An additional coin shall be
taken out for placing by the opponent and the player shall continue his
turn.
3. While covering the Queen, if a player sinks the striker along with his
coin, the coin so sunk plus one coin as due shall be taken out for
placing, by the opponent. The player shall, however, continue his/her
turn. If in that subsequent stroke no coin of the player is pocketed, the
Queen shall not be considered to have been covered and it shall be
taken out for placing else the queen is covered and he continues his
turn.
4. After sinking the striker, your opponent places the due piece(s) within
the centre circle. If you haven’t sunk one yet, you owe one.
5. If you sink your opponent’s piece, you lose your turn.
Queen:
1.Once the queen is covered, whoever clears all their carom first wins the board.
2.If while shooting for the queen you also sink one of your coins in the same
shot, the queen is automatically covered, no matter which went in first.
3.
If you cover the queen with your opponent’s coin then they cover the queen
and you also loose a chance.
4.
If you hit your coin and your opponents coin while covering red (It shouldn’t
be your/your opponents’ last coin), then you cover red, no matter which went
in first.5.
If the centre spot is partially covered when replacing the queen or a jumped
piece, the piece should cover as much red as possible. If totally covered, the
piece is placed opposite the next player behind the red spot.
6.
The queen, can be pocketed at any time after sinking your first piece but must
be sunk before your last one. After pocketing the queen, you must sink one of
your coin, thereby covering it, into any pocket in the next shot, or queen is
returned to the centre spot.
7.
If you cover the queen before pocketing any of your coin, then you have to
score one of your coins in the same chance to claim the queen, else queen goes
back to the centre.
Jump:
1.
If a piece jumps off the board, it is placed on the centre spot and they have
to pay a penalty for it. If pieces land on end or are overlapping, they are left
that way. And if a coin comes to a standing position the umpire will lay it
back on the same spot.
2.If striker jumps off the board player should place a penalty.
3.If the centre spot is partially covered when replacing the queen or a jumped
piece, the piece should cover as much red as possible. If totally covered, the
piece is placed opposite the next player behind the red spot.
Additional rules:
1. While striking, if the striking team touches any other coins with their hand,
they have to pay a penalty.
2. While striking if the opponent’s hand touches any coin, then the opponent
has to pay a penalty of one coin (or due if the opponent doesn't have any coin
yet).3. If you move any coin while passing the striker you will have to pay a fine.
4. If a player stops the striker abruptly, he has to pay penalty.
5. While striking if the striker directly hits only the opponent's coin without
disturbing your coin or the queen then you owe one coin.
6. If you have the queen and one coin of your colour then you can’t hit the coin
of your colour directly, if you hit you need to pay a fine.
7. If you have the queen and one coin of the opponent’s colour then you can’t
hit the coin of the opponent’s colour directly, if you hit you need to pay a
fine.
8. If a team don’t have coins to place a fine, a due will be noted.
9. Fines can add up. Ex: You hit an improper shot and also pocket the striker
then you have to pay 2 fines.
10. Due or penalty shall be taken out for placing after the completion of the
player’s turn.
11. For any kind of fouls, players should call for it. People watching the game
should not call for them and referees won’t be calling them.
NOTE:
In case of any discrepancy, referee’s decision is the final.