You must know the basic moves of chess
● Format is Knockout rounds followed by Round Robin (tentative)
no. of Knockout rounds will be disclosed after the registration forms are closed.
(PS: In knockouts players will play only 1 match with their seed, the colour is computer generated)
● Each player is assigned a fixed amount of time for the whole game. If a player's
main time expires, they lose the game.
● Duration of the game will be decided on the day of the tournament.
Touch to move
● Once a piece is released, it cannot be taken back.
● Note : The usual touch to move rule(According to FIDE) is not used.
Castling
● It must be that king's very first move
● It must be that rook's very first move
● There cannot be any pieces between the king and rook to move
● The king must not be in check or pass through check
En Passant
When a pawn advances two squares from its original square and ends the turn adjacent to a pawn
of the opponent's on the same rank, it may be captured by that pawn of the opponent's, as if it had
moved only one square forward. This capture is only legal on the opponent's next move
immediately following the first pawn's advance.
Pawn promotion
If a player advances a pawn to its eighth rank, the pawn is then promoted (converted) to a queen,
rook, bishop, or knight of the same colour at the choice of the player (a queen is usually chosen).
The choice is not limited to previously captured pieces. Hence it is theoretically possible for a
player to have up to nine queens or up to ten rooks, bishops, or knights if all of their pawns are
promoted. If the desired piece is not available, the player should call the arbiter to provide the piece
Check and Checkmate
The purpose of the game is to checkmate the opponent's king. This happens when the king is put
into check and cannot get out of check.
There are only three ways a king can get out of check:
● move out of the way (though he cannot castle!)
● block the check with another piece or
● capture the piece threatening the king.Illegal move
● Not noticing check.
● Moving a pinned piece, pinned to the king.
● Capturing the King.
● Not following any of the rules mentioned above.
Penalty for Illegal move : For the first illegal move by a player the arbiter shall give two minutes
extra time to his opponent; for a second illegal move by the same player, the arbiter shall declare
the game lost by this player.
Draw possibilities:
● The position reaches a stalemate where it is one player's turn to move, but his king is NOT in
check and yet he does not have another legal move:
● The players may simply agree to a draw and stop playing
● There are not enough pieces on the board to force a checkmate (example: a king vs a king, a
knight and king vs a king , a bishop and king vs a king)
● A player declares a draw if the same exact position is repeated three times (though not
necessarily three times in a row)
● Fifty consecutive moves have been played where neither player has promoted a pawn or
captured a piece.
Draw-breaker
There will be a rematch with the following rules.
(It is an Armageddon, where white has extra time but black has draw odds)
● Both players can auction the time they are willing to play with the black pieces and also the time
difference(i.e How much additional time does the white pieces get), the player bidding the lesser
time will play the black pieces.
● If the draw-breaker result is a draw, black wins.
In case of any disputes, SPOC decision is final.