Players:
1. Team of 9 players including goalkeeper (6 + 3 substitutes).
2. Rolling substitutions can be made during the match within the 9 players’ names given in the players list.
3. Substitutions can be made by informing the referee & after the substituted player leaves the field.
4. Goalkeepers can change within the 9-team members by informing the referee.
5. To start a match, a team should have a minimum of 5 players including goalkeeper. If a team has less than 5 players to start the match, then a walkover/bye(3-0) will be awarded to the opponent.

Player’s Equipment:
1. Rings, kada, bracelets etc are not allowed. Rest will depend on referees/SPOC discretion.
2. Proper football shoes are recommended, but the player must wear shoes to play a match.

Match Duration:
1. The duration of each game will be 20 minutes – Each half of 10 minutes with a half time interval of 3 minutes (10-3-10).
2. The team must report 10 minutes prior to the scheduled match time to sign the register and for briefing.
3. All knockout matches will be played for a duration of 30 minutes, with 5 minutes of interval after half-time.(15-5-15).

The Ball In and Out of PIay:
1. There will be corner kicks if the ball goes off the defender.
2. There will be no throw in, instead there will be kick in from the side lines.
3. Scoring a goal from inside the ‘D’ is allowed. The defender or opponent can enter the ‘D’for scoring /defending is allowed.
4. During a free kick, opponents to stand minimum 3metre/10ft from the football.

Penalty:
1. Penalty will be given against the goalkeeper only if the Goalkeeper fouls the opponent / striker inside the ‘D’ when in position to score a goal. The referee’s decision is final.
2. Penalty will be given against a team if the defender except the goalkeeper handles the ball inside the D area intentionally or unintentionally and if the defender fouls the opponent inside the ‘D’ when in position to score a goal and this is depending on the referee’s decision.
3. When a penalty kick is taken: The player who takes the penalty kick has to wait for the referee’s whistle before the kick.
4. Penalty shall be taken without a run-up with non-striking foot implanted on the ground. No retakes will be allowed.
5. Goalkeeper should stand on the goal line for a penalty.
     
Scoring:
1. A goal is scored when the whole ball passes over the goal line between the posts.
2. A goal can be scored from anywhere. Goal from direct goal kick and center start will be considered as goal. Direct goal from side line would not be considered as goal

Points Tabulation and Walkover:
1. Winner – 3 points; Draw – 1 point; Loss – 0 point
2. Walk over – Only 3 points will be given to the team reporting for play with a scoreline of 2-0.
3. In case a team does not report 5 minutes from the scheduled time, walk over will be awarded to the opponent. (Tournament committee’s decision will be final on this)

Grouping and Qualification:
Format will be decided depending on the number of participating teams.

Tiebreaker:
1. Each side will be allowed 3 penalty kicks from penalty mark, In case of a tie, sudden death rule will be applied and the team scoring first will be awarded the match.
2. For qualifying rounds, in case of a draw, no extra time is given after normal play time.
3. In all the knock out matches, in case of a draw after the regular playtime, extra time of 5 – 5 minutes will be played. If still undecided, tiebreaker rule will be applied i.e., penalty shoot out.

Infringement:
1. If any team walks out of the ground on protest during the playtime, the teams will be disqualified from the tournament.
2. If a player is found playing rough and using foul language on the ground or misbehaving with the referee, a red card will be shown which will lead to suspension of the player for that particular match.
3. If any player / players / team man handles the opponent during the match or even after the match in the premises of the venue suspension will be given to the player/players /team for the next match or disqualified from the tournament.
4. This is the discretion of the organisers & the tournament committee.
5. Except the players and officials, no one can enter the field during the match.
6. The decision of the referee will be final in all matters during the match. No protest will be entertained against referee’s decision.
7. If a player receives yellow card he has to sit out for 2 minutes for that particular game. Repeated offence will lead to a red card and the player has to sit out of the whole match. The team will have to play one man down for rest of the match. Depending on seriousness of foul, appropriate bans will be issued to the player.
8. There won’t be any offside rules for this tournament.

Goalkeeper:
1. If a goalkeeper catches a back pass made by his team mate, penalty will be awarded to the opponent team.