Basic Rules
1. A toss of the coin will decide which team will bat or bowl first.
2. Each team can include six players including substitute
player(optional), atleast one female is mandatory.
3. 5 players on field. Keeping female player as mandatory any 4 of
the 5 remaining players(if substitute is present) can bat, bowl or
field .
4. Each innings is 6 overs long, and the team with the most runs
wins. If there is a tie, a super over with just 1 wicket will be played,
and if that too ends in a tie, successive super overs will be played
until a winner is found.
5. Every team must decide on a star player where only he/she can
play an extra over. Star player in a team should be informed before
beginning of the match.
6. Any one player should bowl 2 overs from the team and that bowler
cannot bowl 2 consecutive overs to star player.
7. Only a team's female player is allowed to bowl to an opponent's
female player.
8. Wides and no balls are the only extras which the batting team are
awarded where a single run is added to the run tally.9. Cones will be placed around marking the boundary and if the ball
pitches directly outside the marked area then it is considered out.
10. The umpire's decision will be the final decision and no
argument must be made(will lead to instant disqualification after a
warning)
Batting Rules
1. Only a single batter at a time.
2. If the batter gets out before playing his allotted 1 over or 2 in case
of the star player the over gets completed and only the runs they
scored will be added to the scorecard.
3. The batter can score runs if the ball passes to the scoring
areas(will be explained below) by bouncing inside the boundary.
4. No score for running between the wickets.
5. Runs are only given if the ball makes contact with the bat and no
extras are given otherwise.
6. The batter is declared out if he or she fails to make contact with
three legitimate balls in his or her allotted overs.Bowling Rules
1. Bowlers should not take a run up, just stand and throw.
2. Fast bowling is not allowed and the umpire will make the final call
regarding that.
3. Underarm and regular standing and throwing the ball are
permitted; however, overarm throwing is prohibited.
4. Bowler can change bowling action and bowling hand if needed in
between the over.
5. Any player can bowl the extra over.
Fielding Rules
1. 5 on field including the bowler.
2. The batter is declared out if the fielder catches the ball directly or
with a single hand after it bounces only once.
3. Batter is considered as not out if the ball directly goes out after
touching the fielders.Scoring Areas
1. If the ball passes the cones which are behind the bowler with
pitching inside then it is declared as a 4.
2. Other scoring areas are towards the leg side and off side where
the closest marked areas to the batter on both the sides with
specified distance along the boundary will be counted as 1 run and
the areas which are further but come before the horizontal
boundary before the bowler is counted as 2 runs.
3. Before the match, the scoring zones will be mentioned, allowing
for a better knowledge of the scoring procedures.