The below mentioned rules are applicable to men’s singles and women’s singles.
Service Rules:
    ➢ During the service, the server has to toss the ball at least 15cm (approximately 6 inches) above the table.
    ➢ The ball has to bounce first on the same side of the table and then on the other side of the table.
    ➢ The tossing of the ball should take place behind the table and above the surface of the table.
    ➢ During the entire duration of tossing and hitting of the ball on a player’s bat, it should be in complete vision of the opponent. Hiding of the serve behind one’ s body is not allowed.
    ➢ In singles matches, the service need be a cross court service.
    ➢ A player will be given two warnings if he/she serves the ball without tossing it properly. 
    ➢ If the third violation of this type occurs, then the opponent will be awarded a point.
    ➢ Each player will be given two services at a time. The service will alternate between the two players.
    ➢ After tossing the ball, the ball should directly hit the racket. If the player fails to hit the ball, that is, the ball lands on the table or on the floor, or the player catches the ball in his hand then the opponent will be awarded a point.
    ➢ Other standard game rules will apply.

Scoring:
➢ The matches before the round of 16 will consist of three sets of 11 points each (extended to deuce if necessary). The player who wins the maximum number of sets (2 out of 3) will be the winner of the match.
➢ The matches in the round of 16, quarterfinals, semifinals, and finals will consist of 5 sets of 11 points each (extended to deuce if necessary). The player who wins the maximum number of sets (3 out of 5) will be the winner of the match.
➢ Deciding set: When the scorer of the set reaches five points, the sides will be changed.

Fouls:
➢ During the play the player can touch the table with his racket or other body part provided the table does not move and the game is not disturbed. If the gameplay is disturbed in any way, the opponent will be awarded a point.
➢ The free hand (the hand which is not holding the racket) cannot touch the table at all. If this happens, then a point will be awarded to the opponent.
➢ A players can take a maximum 2 timeouts in a 3-set match and 3 timeouts in a 5-set match. The duration of a timeout is 1 minute. A players cannot take a timeout more than once in a set.
➢ The practice time before the start of the match is limited to two minutes.