TOSS
1. A coin will be tossed and one of the players will be asked to call out the side (heads/tails)
2. The player who wins will be given an option to choose either the court or serve.

THE SERVICE
Immediately before starting the service motion, the server shall stand at rest with
both feet behind (i.e. further from the net than) the baseline and within the imaginary extensions of the center mark and the sideline.
The server shall then release the ball by hand in any direction and hit the ball with the racket before the ball hits the ground. The service motion is completed at the moment that the player’s racket hits or misses the ball. A player who is able to use only one arm may use the racket for the release of the ball.
The service shall pass over the net and hit the service court diagonally opposite, before the receiver returns it.

SERVICE FAULT
The service is a fault if:
a. The server breaks the service rule above.
b. The server misses the ball when trying to hit it; or
c. The ball served touches a permanent fixture, singles stick or net post before it hits the ground; or
d. The ball served touches the server or server’s partner, or anything the server or the server's partner is wearing or carrying.

SECOND SERVICE
If the first service is a fault, the server shall serve again without delay from behind
the same half of the court from which that fault was served, unless the service was from the wrong half.

THE LET DURING A SERVICE
The service is a let if:
a. The ball served touches the net, strap or band, and is otherwise good; or, after touching the net, strap or band, touches the receiver or the receiver’s partner or anything they wear or carry before hitting the ground; or
b. The ball is served when the receiver is not ready.
In the case of a service let, that particular service shall not count, and the server shall serve again, but a service let does not cancel a previous fault.

PLAYER LOSES POINT
The point is lost if:
a. The player serves two consecutive faults; or
b. The player does not return the ball in play before it bounces twice consecutively; or
c. The player returns the ball in play so that it hits the ground, or before it bounces, an object, outside the correct court; or
d. The player returns the ball in play so that, before it bounces, it hits a permanent fixture; or
e. The receiver returns the service before it bounces; or
f. The player deliberately carries or catches the ball in play on the racket or deliberately touches it with the racket more than once; or
g. The player or the racket, whether in the player’s hand or not, or anything which the player is wearing or carrying touches the net, net posts/singles sticks, cord or metal cable, strap or band, or the opponent’s court at any time while the ball is in play; or
h. The player hits the ball before it has passed the net; or
i. The ball in play touches the player or anything that the player is wearing or carrying, except the racket; or
j. The ball in play touches the racket when the player is not holding it; or
k. The player deliberately and materially changes the shape of the racket when the ball is in play; or
l. In doubles, both players touch the ball when returning it.

NOTE:
1. Decision of the referees will be final.
2. No arguments with the referees will be tolerated(will lead to instant disqualification after a warning).