IIITB Spandan 2024 - Throwball(mixed)
Game format:
-The matches will happen in a league format or round robin
(depending on number of registrations)
-A round robin order will be followed within each group where the table
toppers advance to the finals from each group.
-If there is a tie within the group then depending on time constraints, a
decider match will be played OR the teams will be ranked in the
following priority order if decider cannot be played:
1. Ratio of sets won to sets lost
2. Maximum point difference of all matches played(those with
higher difference get ranked higher)
Rules of the game:
1. Each team will consist of 7 active players with ATLEAST 2
female players where atleast 2 female players have to play
atleast 2 sets in each match.
2. A match shall consist of the best of three sets for 21 points. If a
team wins the first 2 sets, then the third set will not be played.
3. In case of a tie a final deciding set will be conducted which will
be of 21 points.
4. The right to choose the initial order of serving, receiving and
court side shall be decided by coin toss and the winner may
choose to serve or to receive first or to start at a particular end.
5. Players are expected to be at the court at least 5 minutes prior
to the game. If the players fail to show up the match will be
cancelled and the opponent will be declared a winner.
6. Teams will be divided into groups. Knock out round starts after
each team has played the teams in their group.
7. Double touch (juggling the ball in both hands) is not allowed
while receiving the ball. The players have to catch the ball with
both hands and return it by one hand only. The ball should not
move within the palm of the hand.
8. During catching or releasing, the ball should not touch any part
of the body except the palm.
9. The ball should be served after the whistle and with-in 5
seconds.
10. The ball should be served without crossing the service line
with single hand and the serve should always be above shoulder
height.
11. Any ball after catching should be released with-in 3
seconds.
12. During the service, the ball cannot touch the net.
13. A player can jump only while serving. But while catching the
ball they must maintain contact with ground.
14. Players cannot touch the net during the play but the ball can
touch the net. If a player touches the net, no point shall be
awarded and the team serving shall serve again.
15. A player while releasing the ball cannot rotate (360 degrees)
or turn around to throw the ball.
16. 2 players cannot catch the ball simultaneously.
17. Any ball falling on the side-line or end-line is a good
ball.
18. Shifting the ball from right to left or left to right or deliberately
pushing is not permitted. If so, penalty points are given to
opponent team.
19. The service ball or the rally ball should not touch the poles. If
it touches, then it is considered a foul.
20. The serving player always rotates one position clockwise.
21. During the play or rally, players cannot cross the net or
obstruct the opponent team.
22. 2 timeouts (2 min) are permitted for each set.
23. Teams can substitute only when it is their turn to serve; only
exception is if a player gets injured. Only 1 person can be
substituted at a time up to a maximum of 3 substitutes per set.
You cannot substitute the player at serving position.
24. The players have to stay in a 2-3-2 position at the time of
service.
25. Umpire decision is final (no exceptions). Even if it was
wrong call from the Umpire, the decision stays.
26. Any fighting or trouble caused by teams to umpire’s call
will be given a penalty.
