1. The team consists of 7-8 players.
2. There won’t be any mixed team matches. However, if more than 2 teams register, only then a match would be conducted between the women’s teams.
3. 6 players on the floor at any one time - 3 in the front row and 3 in the backrow + 1/2 subs.
4. Maximum of 3 hits per side
5. Points are made on every serve for winning team of rally (rally-point scoring).
6. Player may not hit the ball twice in succession. (A block is not considered a hit.)
7. Ball may be played off the net during a volley and on a serve.
8. A ball hitting a boundary line is in.
9. A ball is out if it hits the floor completely outside the court, any of the net or the referee stand or pole.
10. It is legal to contact the ball with any part of a player’s body.
11. It is illegal to catch, hold or throw the ball.
12. A player cannot block or attack a serve from on or inside the 10-foot line. 
13. After the serve, front-line players may switch positions at the net. 
14. Matches are made up of sets; the number depends on level of play. 3-set matches are 2 sets to 25 points and a third set to 15. Each set must be won by two points.
15. Following are the violations:
    a. When serving, the player steps on or across the service line as while making contact with the ball.
    b. Failure to serve the ball over the net successfully.
    c. Ball-handling errors. Contacting the ball illegally (double touching, lifting, carrying, throwing, etc.)
    d. Touching the net with any part of the body while the ball is in play.
    e. When blocking a ball coming from the opponent’s court, it’s illegal to contact the ball when reaching over the net if both your opponent has not used 3 contacts AND they have a player there to make a play on the ball.
    f. When attacking a ball coming from the opponent’s court, contacting the ball when reaching over the net is a violation if the ball has not yet broken the vertical plane of the net.
    g. Crossing the court centerline with any part of your body is a violation. Exception: if it is the hand or foot. In this case, the entire hand or entire foot must cross for it to be a violation.
    h. Serving out of rotation/order. A rotation of at least 3 players is mandatory.
16 UMPIRE DECISION IS FINAL, DON'T ARGUE WITH UMPIRES.